Flamegraph: Update docs for 10.1 (#72058)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/panels-visualizations/visualizations/flame-graph/index.md

weight: 850
---

# Flame graph

Flame graph panel is a visualization that allows you to visualize profiling data. It can represent the profile as a flame graph, table, or both

![<Flame graph panel>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1.png)

## Flame graph mode

The flame graph takes advantage of the hierarchical nature of profiling data. It condenses data into a format that allows you to easily see which code paths are consuming the most system resources, for example, CPU time, allocated objects or space when measuring memory. Each block in the flame graph represents a function call in a stack and its width represents its value.

![<Flame graph>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-flamegraph.png)

> Grayed-out sections are a set of functions that represent a relatively small value and they've been collapsed together into one section for performance reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grayed-out sections are a set of functions that represent a relatively small value and they are collapsed together into one section for performance reasons.
```

Author: Yeah they are kinda purple aren't they? :D I think it's mainly because we gray them in the sense of desaturating some color so they are more "gray" than other parts.

Author: Would like to avoid using specific color names just in case we change it to really gray or have a bit different color for dark/light theme but wonder what word would describe this, desaturated? Gray-ish? I feel like grayed-out could make sense here overall as a "comparatively gray" to other parts of the graph

Reviewer: To be fair, I only got confused when I was reading it for the third time and when I first read it, it made sense to me. So this may just be me looking at it too long. Let's leave it for the moment.

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-tooltip.png" max-width="500px" caption="Hover tooltip" >}}

You can hover over a specific function to view a tooltip that shows you additional data about that function, like the function's value, percentage of total value, and the number of samples with that function.

### Drop-down actions

You can click a function to show a drop-down menu with additional actions:

- Focus block
- Copy function name
- Sandwich view

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-dropdown.png" max-width="500px" caption="Dropdown actions" >}}

#### Focus block

> The focused block, or function, is set to 100% of the flame graph's width and all its children functions are shown with their widths updated relative to the width of the parent function. This makes it easier to drill down into smaller parts of the flame graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you click **Focus block**, the block, or function, is set to 100% of the flame graph's width and all its child functions are shown with their widths updated relative to the width of the parent function. This makes it easier to drill down into smaller parts of the flame graph.
```

> # Flame graph panel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Flame graph
```

Author: I added the panel here because next section is called `Flame graph`. The issue it the whole panel consists of two sections Table + Flame graph and so wanted to explain by sections, first Flame graph then Table. But that creates the problem of having repeated headers right next to each other.

Reviewer: Ah I understand. This is tricky because ultimately, as we start work on making all of these Visualizations docs more consistent, we likely won't want the word "panel" in any of the page titles. What if we added the word "mode" to the two sub-headings: Flame graph mode, Top table mode?

Author: Good idea, yeah will change it.

> Flame graph panel is a visualization that allows you to visualize profiling data. It can represent the profile as a flame graph, table or both

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flame graph panel is a visualization that allows you to visualize profiling data. It can represent the profile as a flame graph, table, or both
```

![<Flame graph panel>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1.png)

## Flame graph

The flame graph takes advantage of the hierarchical nature of profiling data. It condenses data into a format that allows you to easily see which code paths are consuming the most system resources, for example, CPU time, allocated objects or space when measuring memory. Each block in the flame graph represents a function call in a stack and its width represents its value.

![<Flame graph>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-flamegraph.png)

> Grayed-out sections are a set of functions that represent a relatively small value and were collapsed together into one section for performance reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grayed-out sections are a set of functions that represent a relatively small value and they've been collapsed together into one section for performance reasons.
```

![<Hover tooltip>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-tooltip.png)

> You can hover over a specific function to view a tooltip that shows you what the additional data about that function, like function's value, function's % of total value, and the number of samples with that function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can hover over a specific function to view a tooltip that shows you additional data about that function, like the function's value, percentage of total value, and the number of samples with that function.
```

> ### Dropdown actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Drop-down actions
```

> ![<Dropdown actions>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-dropdown.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You can click on a function to show a dropdown menu with additional actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can click a function to show a drop-down menu with additional actions:

- Focus block
- Copy function name
- Sandwich view

![<Dropdown actions>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-dropdown.png)
```

#### Focus block

> ![<Focus block>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-focus.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The focused block or function is set to 100% of the flame graph's width and all its children functions are shown with their widths updated relative to the width of the parent function, so you can better drill down into smaller parts of the flame graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The focused block, or function, is set to 100% of the flame graph's width and all its children functions are shown with their widths updated relative to the width of the parent function. This makes it easier to drill down into smaller parts of the flame graph.

![<Focus block>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-focus.png)
```

#### Copy function name

> This action copies the full name of the function that the block represents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you click **Copy function name**, the full name of the function that the block represents is copied.
```

#### Sandwich view

> ![<Sandwich view>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-sandwich.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Sandwich view allows you to show the context of the clicked function. It shows all the function's callers on the top and all the callees to the bottom. This shows aggregated context of the function so if the function exists in multiple places in the flame graph, all the contexts are shown and aggregated in the sandwich view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sandwich view allows you to show the context of the clicked function. It shows all the function's callers on the top and all the callees at the bottom. This shows the aggregated context of the function so if the function exists in multiple places in the flame graph, all the contexts are shown and aggregated in the sandwich view.

![<Sandwich view>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-sandwich.png)

```

### Status bar

> ![<Status bar>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-status.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Status bar shows metadata about the flame graph and currently applied modifications like what part of the graph is focused or what function is shown in sandwich view. By clicking on X btton in the status bar pill you can remove the modification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The status bar shows metadata about the flame graph and currently applied modifications, like what part of the graph is in focus or what function is shown in sandwich view. Click the **X** in the status bar pill to remove that modification.

![<Status bar>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-status.png)
```

## Toolbar

### Search

> ![<Searching for function name>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-search.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You can use the search field to find functions with particular name. All the functions in the flame graph which match the search will remain colored, while the rest of the functions are grayed-out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the search field to find functions with a particular name. All the functions in the flame graph that match the search will remain colored while the rest of the functions are grayed-out.

![<Searching for function name>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-search.png)
```

### Color schema picker

> ![<Different color scheme>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-color.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You can switch between coloring functions by their value or by their package name to visually tie functions from the same package together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can switch between coloring functions by their value or by their package name to visually tie functions from the same package together.

![<Different color scheme>](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-color.png)
```

### Text align

Align text either to the left or to the right to show more important parts of the function name when it does not fit into the block.

### Visualization picker

> You can choose to show only the flame graph, only table or both at the same time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose to show only the flame graph, only table, or both at the same time
```

## Top table

> The top table shows the functions from the profile in a table format. The table has three columns: symbols, self, and total. The table is sorted by self time by default, but can be reordered by total time or symbol name by clicking the column headers. Each row represents aggregated values for the given function if the function appears in multiple places in the profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The top table shows the functions from the profile in table format. The table has three columns: symbols, self, and total. The table is sorted by self time by default, but can be reordered by total time or symbol name by clicking the column headers. Each row represents aggregated values for the given function if the function appears in multiple places in the profile.
```

![Table view](/media/docs/grafana/panels-visualizations/flamegraph/screenshot-flamegraph-10.1-table.png)

> There aer also action buttons on the left for each row. The first button searches for the function name while second button shows the sandwich view of the function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are also action buttons on the left for each row. The first button searches for the function name while second button shows the sandwich view of the function.
```
